---
layout: post
title:  "Kukicha (茎茶)"
categories: [tea club]
tags: [green]
---
<b>
    <br>“Karigane, or ‘cry of the wild goose’ is an old Kyoto name for kukicha, ( . . . ). Wild geese, while migrating,
    <br>will sometimes land on driftwood floating the the [<i>sic</i>] water, to take a rest. Some say that the stems of
    <br>karigane tea look like little rafts of driftwood while they’re brewing, and that is the origin of the tea’s name.”
    <br><a href="https://obubutea.com/tea-names-part-2/">– Obubu Tea</a>
</b><br>
    <br>Indeed, it is the stems and twigs that make up this unusual and elusive tea called kukicha! You may have already
    <br>encountered it as either green (<i>ryokucha</i>), or roasted (<i>houjicha</i>). An interesting but lesser known fact, however –
    <br>even amongst the Japanese people, apparently – is that it falls under the category <i>demono</i>, which is a collective
    <br>name for post-production leftovers once the valuable types are sorted out. 
<br>
    <br>That being said it’s certainly a more economical choice in comparison to its leafy counterparts; a sweet and mellow
    <br>introduction to umami-rich Japanese greens. Simultaneously easy on the pocket and the palate – no wonder
    <br>it was dubbed 'poor man’s tea' in the past! 
<br><br>
<b>OTHER NAMES</b>
<br>
    <br><i><b>Karigane</b></i> Typically denotes higher quality kukicha, consisting of stems from premium green teas like <i>gyokuro</i><b>*</b>,
    <br><i>kabusecha</i><b>**</b>, or also <i>tencha</i><b>†</b>.
<br>
    <i><b>Shiraore</b></i> A term used in the Kyushu region. Some sites suggest that it’s made from high quality senchas.
<br>
    <i><b>Boucha</b></i> Roasted kukicha from Ishikawa; made with high quality senchas.
<br>
    <i><b>Kagaboucha</b></i> As above, though this one in particular hails from the city of Kaga. The culmination of a quest to
    <br>make the best for Emperor Showa who was known to be fond of houjicha. (Check Maruhachi [丸八製茶場](https://www.kagaboucha.co.jp/web/.)
    <br>It's supposedly the best, but I wouldn't be the person to ask.

<b>Notes</b>
    <br><b>*</b> A type of green tea shaded three weeks before harvest, resulting in an increased chlorophyll production and enhanced umami.
    <br><b>**</b> A premium-grade sencha. Also shaded before harvest, but to a lesser extent and a different manner than gyokuro.
    <br><b>†</b> Shaded for three weeks; used in the production of matcha.
